# 560. Subarray Sum Equals K

**LeetCode:** {https://leetcode.com/problems/subarray-sum-equals-k/description/?envType=company&envId=amazon&favoriteSlug=amazon-thirty-days}  
**Date:** {2026-02-26}  
**Status:** ❌ Stuck / 🔁 Redo  
**Difficulty:** Medium
**Tags/Pattern:** {e.g. sliding window, prefix sum}  
**Time/Space:** O(n) / O(n)

---

## 1) Problem in 1 line

- find number of subarrays whose sum equals to k given as input
  Explain the problem in one sentence.

---

## 2) My first thought (before coding)

- prefix sum was not the thought but similar to using left and right pointer through for loop (longest substring without repeating chars problem)
  What I tried first, and why.

---

## 3) Mistakes / Confusions (Error Notebook 핵심)

- Mistake #1: did not flip the problem and look at it
- What I learned:
- Prefix sum represents the total sum from index 0 to current index.
- A subarray sum equals k if current_prefix_sum - previous_prefix_sum = k.
- Rearranged idea: if (current_sum - k) exists before, a valid subarray exists.
- We store prefix sums in a hashmap to track how many times each sum appears.
- Initialize {0:1} to handle subarrays starting from index 0.
- Each number is processed once → Time Complexity is O(n).
- Hashmap allows constant time lookups → makes the solution efficient.
- This works even with negative numbers (sliding window would fail).

---

## 4) Final approach (in plain English)

- Start walking through the array while keeping a running total (prefix sum).
- At each number, add it to your running total.
- Ask: “Have I seen a running total before such that removing it from my current total equals k?”
- If yes, that means the numbers between those two points add up to k — so increase your count.
- Store the current running total in a hashmap so future elements can use it.
- Keep going until you finish the array.
- Return the total count of valid subarrays.

Steps of the solution like you’d explain to a friend.

---

## 5) Code (final)

```python
class Solution:
    def subarraySum(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        count=0
        prefix_sum=0
        prefix_map={}
        prefix_map[0]=1
        for num in nums:
            prefix_sum+=num
            if (prefix_sum-k)in prefix_map:
                count+=prefix_map[prefix_sum-k]
            if prefix_sum in prefix_map:
                prefix_map[prefix_sum]+=1
            else:
                prefix_map[prefix_sum]=1
        return count
# paste final accepted code here
```
